# ToDoList Application

## Introduction
The above represents a simplified form of our a production application and it can give you an idea of what the app looks like in production.

The goal is to create a flask application that implements a very simple todo list. It would have an HTML form that accepts a new todo and displays a list of todos. You can also delete todo.
The todos are persisted in the `postgres-main` database and replicated to `postgres-replica`.

## Implementation
* I developpeted the application with python: "app.py"

* The folder templates contains "index.html".
    
* flask_deployment.yaml contains :
  - the deployment of flask application
  - the service of "flask_application" with type "nodePort", the "port=30000". I use service nodePort fort the test.
  - the deployment of pod running "postgre-main" database.    
  - the deployment of "postgres-replicas" pod related to the main database.
  - the postgres-service
  - "requirement.txt": contains the ependances of the applications: flask and psycopg2-binary
    
* The Dokerfile of application contains : the copy and run of application copy of requirements, the run of dependances
   The application is exposed on port 5000. and the export of environments

## Infrastructure
* cluster EKS

## Deployment
* To deploy the application, I used the command: "apply -f flask_deployment.yaml"
  
* To check the pods, services and deployments :
  - kubectl get pods
  - kubectl get service
  - kubectl get deployment

* To build the application and push it in Docker-Hub:
  - docker build -t flask .
  - docker tag flask:latest ilhemb/flask:v14
  - docker push ilhemb/flask:v14

## Test
* To test tha application in my machine:
  - docker run -p 5000:5000 flask 
  - curl  http://127.0.0.1:5000
  
* To connect to the database locally:
  - docker run --name some-postgres -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=mysecretpassword -d postgres
 
## Continuous Delivery with Argo CD
* Argo CD is a declarative, GitOps continuous delivery tool for Kubernetes. It provides a powerful and intuitive user interface (UI) and a command-line interface (CLI) for managing the lifecycle of applications running in Kubernetes clusters.

* With Argo CD, you can define the desired state of your applications in a Git repository using Kubernetes manifests (YAML files). Argo CD continuously monitors the Git repository for changes and ensures that the deployed applications match the desired state defined in the repository.

* I used Argo-Cd to control the cluster k8S and deployments, Continuous Delivery, scalability, state of pods...

* Installation Argo-CD
  - kubectl create namespace argocd
  - kubectl apply -n argocd -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/argoproj/argo-cd/v2.0.4/manifests/install.yaml

* Installation Argo-CD CLI
  - sudo curl --silent --location -o /usr/local/bin/argocd https://github.com/argoproj/argo-cd/releases/download/v2.0.4/argocd-linux-amd64
  - sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/argocd

* Configuration Argo-CD
  - kubectl patch svc argocd-server -n argocd -p '{"spec": {"type":"LoadBalancer"}}'
  Wait 2min
  
  - URL: "kubectl get svc argocd-server -n argocd -o json | jq --raw-output '.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].hostname'"
  - PWD=`kubectl -n argocd get secret argocd-initial-admin-secret -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 -d`
  - Using admin as login and the autogenerated password
  - argocd login $ARGOCD_SERVER --username admin --password $ARGO_PWD --insecure
## Push the Docker Image to the Docker Hub using Jenkins Pipeline – CI CD 
  * I used a pipeline CI CD of Jenkins to clone repo-git of application, build image and push the image to Docker-Hub
  * Installation Jenkins in Linux:
    - sudo yum update 
    - sudo wget -O /etc/yum.repos.d/jenkins.repo https://pkg.jenkins.io/redhat-stable/jenkins.repo
    - sudo rpm --import https://pkg.jenkins.io/redhat-stable/jenkins.io-2023.key
    - sudo yum upgrade
    - sudo dnf install java-11-amazon-corretto
    - sudo yum install jenkins
    - sudo systemctl enable jenkins
    - sudo systemctl start jenkins
    - sudo systemctl status jenkins
  * Connexion to the Dashboard Jenkins:
    - URL: http://15.237.111.38:8080/ (@public de la vm et port 8080)
    - Password: sudo cat /var/lib/jenkins/secrets/initialAdminPassword
      
    

   
